So we're gonna move on now to
setting this up for media queries.
And there is a code pen that will give
you the starting state that I have
right here if you wanna
switch to that code pen.
Or you can just continue on in the same
code pen which is what I'm going to do and
write the rest of the code
here just inside of this.
So when we go to a tablet then,
we need to think about how our various
arrangements are gonna change as we
move through our various breakpoints.
So right now let's just start
up here at the top once again,
here on our set of four columns.
Maybe what we'd like to do is, when we get
to our break point, right, cuz right now,
these will very happily wrap on to
another row, just like Flexbox does.
And if you're happy with
the way things look,
you could absolutely go with that
as a look for your web page.
Because this is what Flexbox does, right?
But if you wanted to make these
a little bit prettier and
ake them stretch across the page then we
would wind up picking a break point here,
whatever it happens to be.
I have a utility up here, I'm in Firefox,
I'm not sure if this is available for
Chrome or not.
And it's a little item that
displays my screen dimensions
up here on the top,
I have it currently disabled.
So if I turn it on it'll just tell me up
here on the top of the page what exactly
my screen dimensions are.
So it's not going to
help me here in code pen.
But if I was moving the whole window,
it would change my numbers
up here on the top.
So I could just sort of scrunch around and
go, you know what?
This is getting a little
bit tight looking,
I think I need to put a break
point somewhere in here.
So, I've actually already
done the work on this though.
So what I wanna do is,
I wanna add a media query.
Actually, we're gonna add two media
queries, so first of all, Here,
everything that we've put down here so
far, for figure span two,
span three, span four and
these various order properties,
these are all for
our desktop layout, right?
So we actually wanna put those
in a media query right away.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
The row can stay outside
of the media query,
this is gonna start at mobile dimensions.
It will carry into all of your
media queries going forward.
We actually want it to continue
to display flex and row wrap and
the space between and
the gap, we want all of that.
But these values here for flex basis and
the ordering and so forth,
that might be desktop specific.
So let's add a media query at media and
then,
we'll say something like min width
of something like 800 pixels.
My screen's blown up so big,
it's hard to say for sure.
Feel free to adjust to
whatever makes sense for you.
And we'll indent those there.
Okay, so all of that figure, span,
span three, span four, order one, two,
three, okay?
So that's now all inside of our media
query for 800 pixels and higher.
So when I make my code pen
window of the appropriate size,
I'll get my formatting back.
Okay, so then when we go below 800 pixels,
let's say starting around 550,
Here, I'm actually going to
put in my media query here.
Min width, Of 550 pixels.
And we can wrap this media query
actually around that row declaration.
Now why on earth would I do that?
Because if the screen gets smaller,
we're now not going to be displaying
our boxes in Flexbox anymore, right?
Okay, so by default,
we have a whole bunch of these figures and
rows and so forth,
they are block level elements, right?
Block configuration and by default,
they just stack on top of each other.
And so by not declaring our Flexbox
until we get to our tablet dimension
when we actually want things
to start showing up on rows,
that's a pretty easy
way to work with this.
Now, the other way that you could
do this would be to put your
Flexbox declaration here
outside of the media query.
and you could set your flex basis for
everything to 100%.
So display at row wrap but
everything is 100% or
you could go to displaying
rather than row wrap.
This would be a case where
you might say column wrap,
so we actually do want to have
a series of columns here on the page.
Really only one and our flex base is 100%,
so that things stack on top of each other.
That would be the other
way to deal with this.
But generally speaking,
I just start declaring my
Flexbox layout inside of
my tablet media query and
let things be outside for
the mobile layouts.
Because they'll just stack
on top of each other which
is usually what you wanna do anyway.
All right, so then here, all we need to do
is come up with the next set of values.
So in our row here for figure,
our default value for figure,
which will get overwritten later with the
classes that we have and the later values.
So previously these were 22% wide,
now we want to have still our 4% gap and
two boxes on the line.
This will actually be a flex basis of 48%,
right?
Two boxes on a line, two of them.
How about our span two,
it's probably kinda the same, right?
So figure and
span two are actually going to
both have that same kinda formatting.
So everything's pretty good until
we get down here towards the bottom
of our screen, right?
So we've got our row with the four boxes,
here it is looking good.
Here's row number two, looks good,
row number three, not so good.
So what would we wanna
do at row number three?
Most likely, what we wanna do is we wanna
have our span three stretched to 100%.
But then,
the item that was all by itself before,
maybe we'd also like
that to stretch to 100%.
So we have our two boxes
stretching to 100%.
So here we'll do a span3
with a flex basis of 100%.
Okay, so there's that.
Now, the second box here from that row,
it is doing exactly what we told it to.
It's displaying in about
half the width and
if that's what you want,
you can certainly leave that.
But it might be that in this case,
you want this one to stretch
full width of the page.
What are we going to do there?
Well, we're gonna have to make
a new type of class for that.
So we might call this,
I don't know, Span3-1,
something like that,
I'm really bad at naming these.
Flex basis is also 100%.
And then we'll just apply
that here in our HTML.
Okay, so here class =
span3-1, there we go.
So there we have two,
in this particular case,
these are both going to
stretch to 100% here.
And but
when we get the screen larger, oops,
we're gonna have to write a class for
that too, aren't we?
Because it's going to continue
to do what we told it to do.
When you set it here in your earlier media
query, span3-1 has a flex spaces of 100%.
That will carry into this later one,
that's why we do all min widths.
What comes before will continue into
the later media queries unless you
specifically override those values later.
So the span3-1 flex basis of 100%
carries into the media query
here of 800 pixels unless we
declare it to be something else.
We probably want this instead, so span3-1,
And now, when we make the screen bigger,
we get that layout back again.
You see how we did that?
But when we go smaller,
it does exactly what we want it to do,
two big boxes stacked
on top of each other.
>> Would you not use flex direction
column so you can use align and justify?
>> Sure, there's lots of ways that
you can do what I'm talking about.
It's CSS,
there's a bunch of different ways that
you can accomplish the same kinda thing.
I try to tell you things that
are relatively straightforward and
easy to understand in the code.
But I'm sure you can find other ways of
doing this, if it makes more sense to you.
That's great,
as always comment your code, so
that people understand
what it is you're doing.
What we have left here is,
we haven't written our span4,
this that's this yellow one right here.
That one has not had a class added yet, so
we can say span4 has a flex basis of 100%.
Here we go, and when you do that,
because the value here for
span4 is set here to be the same
in your tablet media query and
then in your desktop media query,
you don't actually have to redeclare it.
You can if you want to, if it makes
your documentation easier to read, so
people understand what's happening here by
all means leave it in, you haven't hurt
anything.But you don't have to have it
here inside of your desktop declaration.
Because it will carry through from your
tablet media query up here, right?
We're not changing that
particular breakpoint or
particular flex basis value
across the media queries.
All right, so then the last thing to
deal with is these boxes down here on
the bottom, is that 121 layout.
And so here,
let's take a look at our HTML again.
We had a span2 and then,
we had these two figures down here that
have just this ordering type
of class associated with them.
Now, we could take these order classes and
we could tie them into
the Flexbox layout as well.
Could be done, it's probably easier to
leave the ordering classes as their own
utility classes that you just stack up
on top of the flex boxes independently.
So now you have the flexibility of taking
ordering anywhere you want inside of your
design.
So if you take that philosophy
because it's just a philosophy,
technically speaking you
can do whatever you want.
Then, we might think about adding some
additional classes here in some way or
another.
Whatever it is that you wanna do here
to deal with this particular situation.
So probably what we wanna do is,
we wanna have this span2 here,
this first span2,
we actually wanna go to 100%.
And then, these last two figures
we want them to go to 50%.
So we'll probably wind up writing
some additional classes for that.
Following this span3-1,
we might have a span2.
-four, so normally two, two at desktop,
four at a tablet media query, so
here we'd say a flex basis of 100% for
that.
And obviously you could combine these
into a single declaration as well,
if you wanted.
And then,
we need to change that up here span2-4.
And then we need to adjust that
in our desktop, span2, span2-4.
Okay, so that's good.
And then these two here seem to be doing
exactly what we want them to do already.
Which is behave like the boxes that we
have up here at the top of the screen.
So that's pretty much it.
That's how you write a grid system here,
look at that.
So what we did was we came up with
a bunch of scenarios in our HTML.
We laid them all out,
documented them, right?
And then, we just went through and
wrote a few styles for all of those.
So you don't really need a huge
complicated responsive design
framework to deal with this type of thing.
You just need to know how to
do a little bit of math and
you can put something like
this together on your own.